Hello, my name is Fernando Medina Corey, and I'm a data engineer.
Welcome to my course on Using the Serverless Framework with Node.
js on AWS.
Let's take a look at what we'll be doing in module one, the State of Serverless.
In this module, we'll start by looking at prerequisites for this course,
so you know what to expect as you work on projects and listen to modules.
After that,
we'll look at some of the problems that serverless
application developers commonly see,
and how serverless frameworks can help with those.
We'll touch on a few common serverless frameworks to give you an
idea of the landscape before we really hone in on the benefits of
the serverless framework itself.
Then, we'll overview the concepts we'll be learning throughout this course,
and how you can apply them to your work.
And finally, we'll look at the schedule for the rest of the course,
including the project we'll be building and what new skills
we'll have by the end of this course.
So let's get started.
Though we will be going through demo projects at a granular level,
it will be useful to have some background experience before taking this course.
Specifically, you should already have an AWS account,
and understand some AWS basics.
You should also probably understand some basic JavaScript syntax,
as we'll be working with Node.
js heavily in this course.
Because we'll be relying on AWS lambda heavily in this course,
it will be useful for you to have a better understanding of it.
If you haven't already,
I'd suggest taking my Introduction to AWS Lambda course here on Pluralsight.
And finally,
some exposure to the command-line will really help you
succeed when we're working on examples.
I want to quickly clarify something that may already have some of you confused.
There is a distinction between the serverless framework,
which is the specific framework we'll be using in
this course provided by serverless.
com, and serverless frameworks more generally,
which are a general term for any framework that focuses on the
Functions as a Service or 'Serverless' paradigm.
With that out of the way,
let's take a really brief review of traditional versus serverless architectures.
This course will cover very few of the basic
concepts of serverless applications.
For more on that, I'd suggest again my AWS developer course,
An Introduction to AWS Lambda.
But for now, here's some mandatory context on the need for serverless frameworks.
In more traditional applications, you see a tendency to host entire applications,
or at least particular application components,
on managed servers.
You might have business logic, a relational database,
and even access keys all set up on the same physical or virtual server.
In the serverless model,
you might break up each component of your application into separate services,
all handling particular tasks.
One might manage notifications, another might deal with database updates,
and another might manage file storage and retrieval.
Now, each of these components would be isolated services,
each running their own serverless functions.
Now, this is a great benefit to interoperability in separation of concerns,
but it does add some organizational challenges to application development.
Now this is the interesting part,
and where serverless frameworks start to show their utility in how they
organize and standardize this development process.
I'm going to assume that you're already on board with the
benefits of serverless infrastructures,
like only paying for what you use in terms of your server utilization,
and decreased server configuration and management times.
I will try and convince you that serverless frameworks can be a great
way to help the architecture serverless applications.
So what benefits do you get from using a serverless framework?
The first is a common set of standards and organization for your code base.
This is especially important in a micro-service-oriented world when you
break out more and more pieces of code to operate separate,
but cooperative services.
With a standardized code base, it becomes easier to read,
review, and maintain the code that you write,
which is critical to the development process.
The next benefit is tooling.
Frameworks give you a powerful set of tools to
interact with infrastructure providers, scaffold your code and services,
and also add in functionality as you see fit.
One of the other primary benefits of using frameworks
is the community surrounding them.
When building projects within a framework,
you'll have the benefit of having a group of others to ask questions,
share solutions, and springboard your development process.
So this still leaves the question, why the serverless framework?
What else is out there?
Some companies develop and support their own frameworks, like Bustle.
com's shep.
You also have frameworks like Sparta,
which is specifically for development in Go,
or the AWS and Python-only framework, Zappa.
There are certainly a variety of frameworks,
and each of these might suit different use cases,
so how do we settle on a single framework?
One of the first things to consider when choosing a framework is
whether or not it offers good core functionality,
and does things like manage your code base,
or manage the deployments to whatever infrastructure provider you're using.
You'll also want to know the level of support for multiple
languages that the framework covers,
or at least know that it works well with your development language.
Additionally,
you want to make sure it integrates with the
infrastructure as a service provider that you use.
And finally, the framework itself should either offer significant functionality,
or be able to improve and adapt itself through things like plug-ins.
Next, let's take a look at why we might use the serverless framework specifically.